# A Humble Proposal To Start A Reddit Hacker Club On Campus

This is a rather lengthy post as the subject matter is a rather personally relevant one that draws from my own observations and reflections during my time here at CMU. It's something that has been at the back of my mind but never iterated due to a lack of direction and audience. I'd love your feedback.

## Background

I make no effort to preserve anonymity here, as a quick Google search would reveal my identity. I'll save you the trouble. I'm Jonathan Chen, a sophomore in CS with a double major in BA. I don't think I'll ever be a fan of Pittsburgh, as I'm from sunny Los Angeles, but the city and its quirks have grown on me. I'm passionate about entrepreneurship, but have yet to start something substantial. Video games used to be a staple of life until CS came along, but I'm still a hardcore gamer at heart, casual games be damned. I'm very much a geek, though this school has challenged that very definition.

I love meeting people and engaging in intelligent conversation, but something went wrong in the two years since I've been here. I don't hold my choice of major reprehensible for the increasing nonexistence of my social life. In fact, every semester I would try to get more involved with the student body. But nothing seems to work. I can't seem to click with TSA even with the whole shared cultural heritage thing working in my favor. I love making games, so I joined GCS, but the club is bogged down by bureaucracy and nothing gets done (no offense to those still involved). I tried others -SDC, AB, ASA, ARCC, even frats- but nothing felt *right*. I couldn't help but feel like I was trying too hard to fit in. For those of you who've found your niche, I envy you. Listening to "Hand Covers Bruise" on The Social Network's OST, I feel forever alone.

## Starting Something New

If I can't find a niche, then I should carve out my own. That's what entrepreneurs do, right? But I can't do this alone. While not exactly a dawning realization, the recent Pitt prank made it even more clear that CMU has no hacker culture. As halberdier25 pointed out in [this thread](http://www.reddit.com/r/cmu/comments/g4djm/pitt_took_the_fence/), we certainly don't lack the geek capacity here to pull off hacks of the same caliber as Caltech or MIT. I know everyone is busy with their own stuff, but so is everyone else at MIT, and they've done some [pretty impressive stuff](http://hacks.mit.edu/).

This doesn't have to be anything big, and the hacks & pranks don't have to be anything big. I want to start out small. More than anything, I just want this to be an opportunity to meet new people with a mutual penchant for playful, inventive hacks. As corny as it sounds, I also want the hacks to put a smile on people's faces, because the students I see walking around campus are some of the most depressing looking people I've ever seen. A few years ago Volkswagen had a viral ad campaign called [The Fun Theory](http://www.thefuntheory.com/) that introduced a bunch of clever social hacks to change human behavior for the better. I've always thought it'd be extremely cool to do something in the same vein. For that reason and in the same spirit as the [Smiley Award](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/smiley/sa.html), I want to call this "The :-) Club", but I'd understand if you object. We can think of something else.

I'm approaching Reddit with this proposal because I've nowhere else to appeal (and I feel the backstory lends to a more convincing argument), and there seems to be some latent interest here. An [old thread](http://www.reddit.com/r/cmu/comments/fcibn/would_anyone_be_interested_in_starting_a_reddit/) did manage to aggregate interest in a Reddit student organization but was shot down due to lack of a niche focus, so the hacker angle would definitely fill that criterion. Of course, other students would be free to join, but I thought the Reddit label would give the club an initial exclusivity (after all, you're the first ones to know) and a boost in recognition when publicizing.

Beyond some fun freelance contract work, the rest of my semester is relatively work free, so I'm willing to do whatever it takes to get this started if there is enough interest. It'd be a great experience and I would get to know some of you who I otherwise probably wouldn't get the chance to meet. That said, if anyone would like to help or be part of this, send me an email (my Andrew ID is jechen). We'll talk it over coffee or something. :)

## TL;DR

I want to start a Reddit student organization on campus to establish/promote a hacker culture at CMU. It draws from my inability to fit into any niche here, my admiration of the hacker culture at MIT/Caltech, and a propensity to make a difference with the remainder of my time here. If the notion of meeting awesome people, doing hacky things, and leaving a cool legacy entices you, shoot me an email (andrew id: jechen). Any feedback is also appreciated. :)
